# Approach to code quality

Writing quality code is an essential part of any project. In release 2, we implemented Checkstyle and SpotBugs, which are tools to ensure quality, consistency and uniformity across our entire code base. Another reason we chose these tools are their easy integration with Maven.

**Checkstyle** is a tool that ensures our code adheres to a given standard. One of the major benefits of automatically formatted code is that the developer does not have to make style or format choices and can focus on the code itself, instead of spaces and tabs. We chose Google Java Style because of its popularity and ubiquity. Our entire code base adheres to this standard.

**SpotBugs** is a program that uses static analysis to find bugs in java code. There are many bugs and errors that aren't picked up by the IDE before code is compiled. To mitigate these errors and ensure that our code is as consistent and bug free as possible, we used SpotBugs. We would like our program to be stable and reliable. SpotBugs helps us realize that aspiration. In addition to catching bugs, Spot Bugs also recommends best practices. This tool found errors with static and instance-based overlap in various methods in the PacMan and controller class and found a recursive string concatenation which should have been a String Buffer. The arrow key inputs that relate to PacMan's movement and rotation must be static so the KeyListener class can access them when the player presses an arrow key. This caused all of PacMan movement code to be static and these errors may not have been found without SpotBugs.
